you
so now let's talk about the problem a
little bit more and specifically let's
talk about the two different ways of
estimating the parameters one is called
a maximum likelihood estimate that I
already just mentioned the other is
Bayesian estimation so in maximum
likelihood estimation we define best as
meaning the data likelihood has reached
the maximum so formal is given by this
expression here where we define the
estimate as arcamax of the probability
of x given theta and so alchemax here
just means it's actually a function that
would return the argument that gives the
function maximum value as the value so
the value of our max is not the value of
this function but rather the argument
that has made the function reaches
maximum so in this case the value of our
max is Theta the it's the theta that
makes the probability of x given theta
which is maximum so this is made the
intuitive it also makes sense and it's
often very useful and it seeks the
parameters that best explain the data
but it has a problem when the data is
too small because when the data points
are too small there are very few data
points the sample is small then if we
trust data in tiny and try to fit the
data and then we'll be biased so in the
case of text data let's say our observed
100 words did not contain another word
related to text mining then our maximum
like likelihood estimator would give
that word a 0 probability because given
the nonzero probability they would take
away probably and mass from some observe
the world which of obviously is not
optimal in terms of maximizing the
likelihood of the observe the data but
this this 0 probability for all the and
and symbols may not be reason
sometimes especially if we want the
distribution to characterize the topic
of text mining so one way to address
this problem is actually to use Bayesian
summation where we actually would look
at the both the data and or our prior
knowledge about the premise we assume
that we have some prior belief about the
parameters now in this case because so
we are not going to look at just in the
data but also look at the prior so the
prior here is defined that by P of theta
and this means we will impose some
preference on certain Finas of others
and by using Bayes rule that I have
shown here we can then combine the
likelihood function with the prior to
give us this posterior probability of
the parameter now a full explanation of
Bayes rule and some of these things
related to Bayesian reasoning would be
outer side the scope of this course but
I just give a brief introduction because
this is a general analogy that might be
useful to you so the Bayes rule is
basically defined here and allows us to
write down one conditional probability
of x given Y in terms of the conditional
probability of Y given X and you can see
the two probabilities are two
conditional probabilities are different
in the order of the two variables but
often the rule is used for making
inferences of of a variable so let's
take a look at it again we can assume
that the P of X encodes our prior belief
about X that means before we observe any
the data that's our belief about X what
we believe some X values have a higher
probability there others and this
probability of x given Y is a
conditional company and this is our
posterior belief about X because this is
our belief about X values after we have
observed Y given that we have observed Y
now what do we believe about X now do we
believe some values have higher
probabilities than others now the two
probabilities are related through this
this can be regarded as the probability
of the observed evidence Y here given a
particular X so you can think about X as
our hypothesis and we have some prior
belief about which hypothesis is true
and after we have observed Y we will
update our belief and this updating
formula is based on the combination of
our prior here and the likelihood of
observing this Y if X is indeed true so
so much for the talk about baseball so
in our case what we are interested in is
inferring the theta values so we have a
prior here that includes our priority
about the parameters and then we have
the data likelihood here that would tell
us which parameter value can explain the
data well the posterior probability
combines both of them so it remains a
compromise of the two preferences and in
such a case we can maximize this
posterior probability
to find the theta that would maximize
this posterior immunity and this
estimator is called a maximum
a-posteriori or map estimate and this
estimator is Moche is a more general
estimate than the maximum likelihood
estimator because one if we define our
prior as a non informative prior meaning
that it's uniform over all the Thira
values no preference then we basically
would go back to the maximum michael
estimated because in such a case it's
mainly going to be determined by this
light holder value here the same as here
okay but if we have some information
prior some bias towards certain values
then map estimator can allow us to
incorporate that but the problem here of
course is how to define the prior there
is no free lunch and if you want to
solve the problem with more knowledge we
have to have that knowledge and that
knowledge ideally should be reliable
otherwise your estimate may not
necessarily be more accurate than
maximum like a resume
so now let's let's look at the the
Bayesian estimation in more detail ok so
I show the theta values as just a 1 by
mention value and that's a
simplification of course so we're
interested in you know which key value
of theta is optimal so now first we have
the patta the prior tells us some
theorem barriers are more likely than
others we believe for example these
values are more likely than the values
like here or here or other places so
this is our prior and then we have our
data likelihood in this case the data
also tells us we
values of theta are more likely and that
just means those Silla values can best
expand our data and then when we combine
the two we get the posterior
distribution and that's just a
compromise of the tool they would say
that it's somewhere in between so we can
now look at the some interesting point
estimates of cear now this point that
represents the mode of prior that means
the most likely parameter value
according to our prior before we observe
any data this point that is the maximum
writer is made it represents the CETA
that gives the data the maximum
probability but this point is
interesting it's the posterior mole it's
them it's the most likely value of theta
given by the posterior distribution and
it represents a good compromise of the
prior mode and the maximum accuracy
later now in general in Bayesian
inference we are interested in the
distribution of all these parameter
values as you see here if there is a
distribution over theta values that you
can see here P of theta given X so the
problem of Bayesian inference is to
infer this posterior decision and also
to infer a other interesting quantities
that might depend on theta so I showed F
of theta here as an interesting variable
that we want to compute but in on
compute this value we need to know the
value of theta in Bayesian inference we
treat theta as a uncertain variable so
we think about all the possible values
of theta therefore we can estimate the
value of this function f as expected
value of f according to the posterior
distribution of theta given observe the
evidence X as a special case we can
assume F of theta is just equal to theta
in this case we get the expected value
of the theta that's basically the
posterior mean that gives us also one
point of theta and in it sometimes the
same as posterior mode but it's not
always the same so it keeps on as
another way to estimating parameters so
this is a general illustration of
Bayesian estimation any basic inference
and later you will see this can be
useful for topic mining where we want to
inject some prior knowledge about topics
so to summarize we introduce the
language model which is basically
probably the distribution of the text
it's also called a generative model for
text data a simpler model is a unigram
language model it's basically a water
distribution we introduced to the
concept of likelihood function which is
the probability of the data given some
model and this function is very
important given a particular set of
parameter values this function can tell
us which x which data point has a higher
life I hold a higher probability given a
data point sorry
given a data sample X we can this use
this function to determine which prime
the values would maximize the
probability of the observed data and
this is the maximum like arrests made we
also talked about the Bayesian is making
our inference in this case we must have
defined a prior on the parameters P of
theta and then we're interested in
computing the posterior distribution of
the parameters and which is proportional
to the prior and the likelihood and this
kind of distribution would allows them
to infer any derived values from 0
you